Blog: best message queue for cloud native app (#268)
vanus-labs/docs: blog/20230219-best-8-message-queue/best-8-message-queue.md

> # Best 8 Message Queues Most Suitable for Cloud Native Applications

Reviewer: missing the param

> # Best 8 Message Queues Most Suitable for Cloud Native Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title:  Best message queue for cloud-native apps
description: 
type: blog
category: learning
layout: single
lastmod: 2023-2-27
author: Lucas
tags: ['Serverless', 'Message Queue']
---

# Best 8 Message Queues Most Suitable for Cloud Native Applications
```

- Multi-tenancy: Pulsar allows multiple applications to share a single cluster, with each application isolated from others.
- Geo-replication: Pulsar can replicate data across multiple clusters in different geographic regions, providing high availability and disaster recovery capabilities.
- Message TTL: Pulsar allows messages to be automatically expired after a certain amount of time, which can be useful for implementing time-based workflows or cleaning up old data.
- Tiered storage: Pulsar can store messages in multiple tiers of storage, ranging from high-performance storage to cold storage, which can help reduce costs and improve performance.

Pulsar also provides a rich set of client libraries for a variety of programming languages, making it easy to build messaging and streaming applications using Pulsar. Apache Pulsar is a popular choice for real-time data processing and messaging in large-scale data processing applications, such as those used in the financial, telecommunications, and internet-of-things industries.

## 4 latest popular message queues

Like 2010, 2020 is also a very important year. Let's take a look at some background information around 2020:

> * Cloud becomes the infrastructure of society: Digitalization has become an important driving force driving the development of enterprises.More and more enterprises choose to build their digital business based on public cloud.In the 10 years from 2010 to 2020, the global cloud computing market size ranged from $41 billion to $312 billion. Even during the epidemic, the market growth rate in 2020 will still be as high as 33%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cloud becomes the infrastructure of society: Digitalization has become an important driving force driving the development of enterprises. More and more enterprises choose to build their digital business based on the public cloud. In the 10 years from 2010 to 2020, the global cloud computing market size ranged from $41 billion to $312 billion. Even during the epidemic, the market growth rate in 2020 will still be as high as 33%.
```

> * Global economy enters recession: Although we don't want to see it, we have to admit that the global economy is now in a massive recession. The spread of the epidemic around the world is one of the most important reasons. The recession has made business extremely difficult. Saving costs has become an important topic for many business executives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Global economy enters recession: Although we don't want to see it, we must admit that it is now in a massive recession. The spread of the epidemic worldwide is one of the most important reasons. The recession has made business extremely difficult. Saving costs has become an important topic for many business executives.
```

> * Cloud native is becoming more and more popular: Modern enterprises demand better agility and flexibility and lower costs from their digital businesses. This has given birth to the rapid development of cloud native technology. For example, C I/CD technology can provide the ability of rapid delivery, and Serverless technology can provide the ability of fast elasticity and on-demand operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cloud native is becoming increasingly popular: Modern enterprises demand better agility, flexibility, and lower costs from their digital businesses. This has given birth to the rapid development of cloud-native technology. For example, C I/CD technology can provide the ability of rapid delivery, and Serverless technology can provide the ability of fast elasticity and on-demand operation.
```

> * kubertenes is becoming the infra of cloud native apps：Kubernetes provides a powerful ability to automatically expand and shrink applications, and dynamically adjust resources according to the load of the application, thereby achieving higher resource utilization and faster application response time.his helps enterprises save costs and improve efficiency, so more and more enterprises deploy their software on k8s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kubernetes is becoming the infra of cloud-native apps: Kubernetes provides a powerful ability to automatically expand and shrink applications and dynamically adjust resources according to the load of the application, thereby achieving higher resource utilization and faster application response time.his helps enterprises save costs and improve efficiency, so more and more enterprises deploy their software on k8s.
```

> Around 2010, due to the surge of mobile Internet users, a large amount of data needs to be processed, which gave birth to the emergence of message queues such as Kafka. In 2020, due to the large number of cloud technologies adopted by enterprises and the emergence of cloud-native technologies such as kubernetes and serverless, enterprises have new needs. This time, they need a message queue with a cloud-native architecture that is truly suitable for the new infrastructure. However, message queues, which were born around 2010, are obviously powerless in the face of new infrastructure and new applications such as serverless due to different technical architectures and application scenarios. For example, kafka obviously has many problems running on kubertenes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Around 2010, due to the surge of mobile Internet users, a large amount of data needed to be processed, which gave birth to the emergence of message queues such as Kafka. In 2020, due to the large number of cloud technologies adopted by enterprises and the emergence of cloud-native technologies such as Kubernetes and serverless, enterprises have new needs. This time, they need a message queue with a cloud-native architecture that is truly suitable for the new infrastructure. However, message queues, which were born around 2010, are obviously powerless in the face of new infrastructure and new applications, such as serverless due to different technical architectures and application scenarios. For example, Kafka obviously has many problems running on Kubernetes:
```

* StatefulSet requirement: Kafka is a distributed system that requires each node to maintain state, which can make it difficult to run on Kubernetes. In particular, running Kafka on Kubernetes requires using StatefulSets, which can be more complex to manage than Deployments.

> * Resource consumption: Kafka requires significant resources to run, including CPU, memory, and storage. This can make it challenging to run Kafka in a scalable way on Kubernetes, where resources are typically shared among many different applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resource consumption: Kafka requires significant resources to run, including CPU, memory, and storage. This can make it challenging to run Kafka in a scalable way on Kubernetes, where resources are typically shared among many different applications.
```

> * Networking complexity: Kafka requires a well-defined network topology in order to work properly, and this can be difficult to achieve on Kubernetes. In particular, Kafka requires that each node have a unique hostname and IP address, which can be challenging to achieve in a containerized environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Networking complexity: Kafka requires a well-defined network topology in order to work correctly, and this cannot be easy to achieve on Kubernetes. In particular, Kafka requires that each node have a unique hostname and IP address, which can be challenging to achieve in a containerized environment.
```

> * Data locality: Kafka performs best when data is stored on the same node as the consumer that will be reading it. However, Kubernetes does not provide strong guarantees about where pods are scheduled, which can make it difficult to ensure that data is stored on the same node as the consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data locality: Kafka performs best when data is stored on the same node as the consumer that will be reading it. However, Kubernetes does not provide strong guarantees about where pods are scheduled, which can make it challenging to ensure that data is stored on the same node as the consumer.
```

Different from virtual machines and traditional microservice architecture applications, new infrastructure such as k8s and cloud-native applications such as serverless have significantly different requirements for message queues:

> Fully elastic: It can make full use of the capabilities of kubernetes and automatically expand or contract as needed. Kafka can only be expanded or contracted manually, and data migration for replication is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fully elastic: It can make full use of the capabilities of Kubernetes and automatically expand or contract as needed. Kafka can only be expanded or contracted manually, and data migration for replication is required.
```

Lightweight & K8s native: It needs to be lightweight enough, with very little resource dependence, and can run in pods.

> Friendly to serverless cloud-native applications: Cloud-native applications usually have strong elasticity, such as cloud functions. When traffic comes, hundreds of instances may need to be expanded to process requests within 1 second. The new message queue needs to support rapid scaling of large-scale applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Friendly to serverless cloud-native applications: Cloud-native applications, such as cloud functions, usually have strong elasticity. When traffic comes, hundreds of instances may need to be expanded to process requests within 1 second. The new message queue needs to support the rapid scaling of large-scale applications.
```

> The following introduces four popular message queues born around 2020. Compared with Kafka, they are obviously more suitable for k8s and new cloud-native applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following introduces four popular message queues born around 2020. Compared with Kafka, they are more suitable for k8s and new cloud-native applications.
```

### 1 [Redpanda](#https://redpanda.com/)

> [Redpanda](#https://redpanda.com/) is an open source distributed streaming platform that can be used as a high-performance message queue. Redpanda message queue is based on Apache Kafka's design but provides several improvements such as faster performance, lower latency, and better scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Redpanda](#https://redpanda.com/) is an open-source distributed streaming platform that can be used as a high-performance message queue. Redpanda message queue is based on Apache Kafka's design but provides several improvements, such as faster performance, lower latency, and better scalability.
```

> Redpanda message queue allows multiple producers to write messages to a single topic, and multiple consumers to read messages from that topic in parallel. Messages can be buffered in memory for fast delivery and can be persisted to disk for durability. Redpanda also provides a number of features such as replication, partitioning, and compression to help manage large amounts of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda message queue allows multiple producers to write messages to a single topic, and multiple consumers to read messages from that topic in parallel. Messages can be buffered in memory for fast delivery and persist to disk for durability. Redpanda also provides a number of features, such as replication, partitioning, and compression, to help manage large amounts of data.
```

> One of the key benefits of using Redpanda message queue is its ability to handle large volumes of data in real-time. This makes it a popular choice for applications that require high throughput and low latency, such as streaming analytics, real-time monitoring, and online gaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the key benefits of using Redpanda message queue is its ability to handle large volumes of data in real-time. This makes it a popular choice for applications that require high throughputs and low latency, such as streaming analytics, real-time monitoring, and online gaming.
```

* Build the event-driven application

  * Send SaaS-generated events to the data lake for analysis.
  * Deliver cloud services events to cloud functions for processing.
  * Real-time transmission of events between SaaS.

  * Synchronize data between databases in real-time.

* Out-of-the-box event computing capabilities

  * Provides 100+ built-in functions to help developers process events in real-time.
  * Provides general and flexible filtering rules, and developers can easily filter events.
  * Supports event processing through cloud functions such as aws lambda.

* Serverless, a simple and effortless process

  * Automatically scale up or down clusters based on event traffic, reducing costs by up to 90%.
  * Seamlessly integrate mainstream cloud functions and open-source FaaS platforms.
  * One-click deployment, the installation is done in seconds with 0 operations needed.

### 3 [KubeMQ](#https://kubemq.io/)

> [KubeMQ](#https://kubemq.io/) is a Kubernetes-native message queue and messaging system that provides a reliable, scalable, and high-performance messaging infrastructure for distributed applications. It is designed to be easy to deploy, operate, and use within a Kubernetes environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[KubeMQ](#https://kubemq.io/) is a Kubernetes-native message queue and messaging system providing a reliable, scalable, high-performance messaging infrastructure for distributed applications. It is designed to be easy to deploy, operate, and use within a Kubernetes environment.
```
